So a big part of understanding the machine learning stack on AWS is
understanding how you get your data into the platform,
and that involves both data ingestion and transformation.
So here within this module, we're going to review these services,
and I realize many of these have been covered already in this path.
But here,
we're going to be focusing on understanding the specific use
cases that fit each of these different services.
So first, let's look at the data ingestion services.
So here we have, first, Kinesis Data Streams.
Then, we have Kinesis Data Firehose.
We have Kinesis Video Streams.
and we have Kinesis Data Analytics.
So let's look at each of these.
First of all, we have Kinesis Data Streams.
Now this is a data streaming service that supports both
massive scale and the durability of your data.
It can actually store your data for up to 7 days Now the downside
of using Kinesis Data Streams is that it does require manual
shard configuration for your scaling,
so it doesn't handle this automatically for you.
There also can be some difficulty in calculating the exact number of
shards that you'll need for your streaming data.
But in this case,
your use cases for this would include situations where you
need data storage of your streaming data.
You also want to be able to replay your streaming data potentially.
And if you need your data to be as near to real time as possible,
Kinesis Data Streams is a great fit.
But on the flip side of this, we have Kinesis Data Firehose,
and this takes a bit of a different approach.
It is a fully managed data delivery solution that
integrates in with multiple AWS services.
Now one of the benefits of using Kinesis Data Firehose is that it
does not require manual configuration to scale.
Now if you do have massive scaling needs on Kinesis Data Firehose,
you may need to talk to AWS support to be sure that
it is set up properly for you.
The use cases for Kinesis Data Firehose include if you need to have data
delivered directly in to S3 or Redshift or Elasticsearch.
Or if being near real time and not truly real time,
if that's sufficient for you, this could be a great fit.
Also, if you don't want to have to worry about the size of your streaming data,
if it's somewhat unpredictable, you want to look at using Kinesis Data Firehose.
Now the next option is Kinesis Video Streams,
and this is a fully managed video data delivery solution that
does integrate with several AWS services.
And just like with Firehose,
it does not require manual configuration for scaling.
Now you might want to look at this if you have solutions where you
want to do things like deliver video streams,
maybe from an edge camera,
maybe that's a part of a home security system or an
industrial monitoring solution,
and you want to be able to analyze specific frames within SageMaker or if
you're looking to integrate in your video data with facial recognition and
do facial tracking within Amazon Recognition.
Now next, we have Kinesis Data Analytics,
and this is a fully managed streaming data analytics service,
and what it does is it gives you the ability to run
queries against your input data.
And very often,
you're going to be pairing this in with either Kinesis
Data Streams or Kinesis Data Firehose.
Now next, let's look at the ways that we transform our data.
So we're going to look at three different services here.
First, we're going to look at Amazon EMR,
and we'll see Amazon EMR show up quite a bit in this module
because it can be used in many different ways.
We also have AWS Glue,
and we have a feature of Kinesis Data Firehose called Data Transform.
So first, let's take a look at Amazon EMR.
Now this is the big data platform for processing
large‑scale data in the cloud on AWS.
And it does have support for many, many different frameworks,
including Spark and Hive and HBase and Flink and Hudi and Presto.
And so you could do quite a bit on.EMR.
You can even use EMR for your machine learning training and inference,
but we'll talk more about that later within this module.
But the next option that we have for transformation is AWS Glue.
And this is different in that unlike EMR where you
have to configure specific instances, this is a fully managed ETL service.
So this acts in more of a serverless capacity than what we get with EMR.
And it also includes the Glue Crawler,
which can go out and discover data within our data sources,
as well as the metadata around that.
And this crawled data is indexed in the AWS Glue Catalog.
Now the supported data sources for this include S3 and DynamoDB,
and it supports both of those natively.
but we also can get access to our database is like RDS and Redshift over JDBC.
Now next, we have the Kinesis Data Firehose Data Transform feature,
and this feature allows us to invoke a lambda function on our incoming
data and then take the output of that lambda function and pass that to
the destination for our data pipeline.
Now this does not require configuration for it to scale.
So this can be an advantage if you're already using Firehose and you need
to do relatively simple transformations on your data.
So there are some limits to using this feature.
First of all, the invocation time is 5 minutes.
So even though lambda can see port longer executions than this,
the data transform feature of Kinesis Data Firehose
will only allow you to use 5 minutes.
In addition,
both the input and output payload limit for this lambda function that need to be set at 6MB.